the head of Israel's Military
Intelligence unit has resigned for
failing to prevent the Hamas terror
attack on October the 7th in which 1,200
people were killed and 250 others were
kidnapped Major General Aron haliva is
the first senior Israeli figure to step
down over the attack haliva said that
under his command the intelligence
directorate did not live up to its task
his decision to step down could set the
stage for more resignations among
Israel's top security
Personnel for more Let's cross straight
to Rebecca rits our correspondent in
Jerusalem hi Rebecca now haliva says
that he Bears responsibility for this
intelligence failure How likely is it
that we'll now see more resignations
from uh senior military
officials well of course Anna that you
know we'll have to wait and see what
happens in The Fallout of this
resignation we know that her lever
accepted respons responsibility already
uh in around about a week after the
attack initially took place back in
October um and several other significant
officials also took responsibility
including yoav Galant the defense
minister though nobody stepping down of
course until today the one person that
didn't take any responsibility at that
time was the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu uh now in his resignation
speech uh General haliva said the
Intelligence Division did not live up to
the task that we were entrusted with and
we certainly know now in the aftermath
of that attack on October 7th that there
were major failures in intelligence we
know that up to a year before that
attack in October intelligence officials
were made aware they they had found a
document that detailed much of what
actually happened it turned out to
actually happen in the attack we know
that spotters who were who were
stationed to watch uh over much of Gaza
were in fact uh calling the alarm saying
that they'd seen unusual activity uh
that they'd seen um drills being carried
out by Hamas battalions and that they
were worried indeed that there would be
an imminent attack but intelligence
officials basically battered those fears
away saying that Hamas had no interest
in carrying out an attack they didn't
believe that they had the capability to
do so and in fact that they were more
interested in governing Gaza that was
certainly the the the opinion of not
just the military but also the
government listening to that um
listening to that advice from the
military so as I mentioned he already
accepted uh some fault back way back in
October and now he is uh you know living
up to that and standing down as uh
intelligence chief for the military he's
also called for an investigation into
the wrongdoings and into the failures of
the military the intelligence and indeed
the government but uh that's so far
hasn't been undertaken by prime minister
Netanyahu okay Rebecca stay with us I'll
come back to you in just a second to
talk about the scores of bodies that
have been found in Mass Graves um at a
Gaza Hospital civil defense teams in
Gaza have discovered uh these bodies
buried in a hospital Courtyard in the
southern city of Khan unun the grave uh
was found in the NASA medical complex
which has previously been raided by
Israeli forces the civil defense group
says at least 50 bodies have so far been
exhumed uh a spokesman said that some
had no clothes indicating that they may
have faced torture and abuse uh Israel's
military says that it is
investigating these reports um Rebecca
Israel said that it carried out a
precise and limited operation at the
NASA hospital that doesn't really fit
with what we're seeing on the grounds of
the hospital complex after the raid does
it well sadly that is true we've seen
the so-called Precision targeting of the
alifa and other hospitals as well but in
the aftermath and certainly the pictures
that emerged from there you know I will
reiterate again that we have not been
able to access Gaza everyone knows that
by now but the stuff that we is being
reported from journalists on the ground
people eyewitnesses we're seeing a lot
of video being circulated on social
media and around and it does not show
what you might call Precision attacks
which is what the military say They
Carried out as you say uh 50 bodies that
number has has been increasing I've been
hearing 180 even up to 210 bodies uh
from the NASA Graves that have been
discovered uh that number very likely to
rise as many people uh reporting missing
persons in that area I've heard numbers
of up to 2,000 missing persons uh in
that area so we may well see that number
rise it's difficult to say at this point
it's obviously Ong goinging just how how
much that number could rise but
Precision isn't perhaps a word you would
use when you look at the pictures and
when you hear the stories of as you say
there I witness accounts of uh alleged
abuse and naked bodies being found in
these pits so we'll have to see what
comes of that in the days uh and weeks
ahead but certainly not what you might
call Precision okay now let's turn our
attention to what's been happening in
the West Bank because residents there
have launched a general stri
um at the weekend they closed shops and
other businesses after Israeli troops
raided a refugee camp in the territory
the Palestinian red cresant as saying
that at least 14 people were killed
dozens were injured Israel says it
targeted militants during a
counterterrorism uh
operation Israel's military raids the
new Shams refugee camp in the northern
part of the West
Bank the aftermath
many killed and
injured roads
bulldozed and homes
destroyed my son was sleeping there he
had gone to wash himself then he prayed
and went home his home is higher up
there was a sniper in front of him who
shot him I heard the sound of the
shooting my other son went up there and
found he was
bleeding he bled to death look at his
blood
Palestinians describe the Israeli rate
as
unprecedented there is indeed complete
destruction of homes shops the
electricity grid the sewage the water
Network and the
infrastructure this incursion is
unprecedented there are snipers and
rooftops death squats and Special Forces
deployed it's indeed a real
[Music]
war the Israeli military says it killed
militants during the raid the Army also
says it has found and destroyed
explosives and seized many weapons used
in what it calls terrorist
activities following the Israeli rate
Palestinian residents launched a general
strike shops universities Banks and the
public transportation were all close to
protest the Israeli rate on the refugee
camp and we're back with our
correspondent in Jerusalem Rebecca RS
Rebecca what did Israel say prompted
this uh raid in the West
Bank well Ana Israel say says that the
operation was aimed at dismantling
terrorist infrastructure and
apprehending suspects that's generally
what they say when they go into these
refugee camps or area cities uh and
carry out these raids um it's certainly
we believe one of the largest raids
that's been carried out since uh October
7 uh but we know that violence has
increased you know tenfold since October
7 violence uh with all over the West
Bank at the by the hands of IDF and also
by settlers uh has increased a great
deal since uh since the attack on
October 7th with more than 4 80
Palestinians killed by either IDF or
settlers um now 2023 was already on
track to be one of the deadliest years
in the West Bank for more than a couple
of decades really since the inap years
and we were seeing that already prior to
October 7 that optic the optic
environment has surged since then with
critics saying that the IDF are using
the distraction of Gaza to go in and
settle scores but of course the IDF
saying that it is necessary to ensure
the safety of its citizens and to ensure
that it doesn't see a a second or third
front if you will if you include what's
happening on Israel's northern border
with um with Lebanon so you know you can
see that that the IDF saying that this
is really for security for its citizens
but critics denying that it's necessary
and saying that many civilians are being
caught up in the fry we'll leave we'll
leave it there Rebecca thanks so much
that's DW's Rebecca rers in Jerusalem